# GFG POTD - 25nd June 2024 - Left Rotate Matrix K times

## `Question`
You are given an integer k and matrix mat. Rotate the elements of the given matrix to the left k times and return the resulting matrix.
## `Approach`
1. **Initialization**:
    - The function `rotateMatrix` takes an integer `k` and a 2D vector `mat` as inputs.
    - It initializes an empty 2D vector `res` to store the resulting matrix after rotation.
    - It also determines the number of rows `r` and columns `c` in the input matrix `mat`.

2. **Rotation Adjustment**:
    - If `k` is a multiple of the number of columns `c`, the matrix remains unchanged, and the function returns the original matrix.
    - Otherwise, it reduces `k` modulo `c` to handle cases where `k` is larger than the number of columns.

3. **Row-wise Rotation**:
    - For each row in the matrix:
        - It initializes an empty vector `ds` to store the rotated row.
        - It first adds elements from index `k` to the end of the row to `ds`.
        - Then, it adds elements from the beginning of the row to index `k-1` to `ds`.
        - This effectively rotates the row to the left by `k` positions.
    - The rotated row is then added to the result matrix `res`.

4. **Return the Result**:
    - Finally, the function returns the resulting matrix `res`.
## `Time Complexity`
- The time complexity of this code is O(r * c), where \(r\) is the number of rows and \(c\) is the number of columns in the matrix.
## `Code (C++)`
```c++ 
class Solution {
  public:
    vector<vector<int>> rotateMatrix(int k, vector<vector<int>> mat) {
        vector<vector<int>> res;
        int r = mat.size(), c = mat[0].size();
        if(k % c == 0) return mat;
        k %= c;
        for(int i = 0; i < r; i++) {
            vector<int> ds;
            for(int j = k; j < c; j++) {
                ds.push_back(mat[i][j]);
            }
            for(int j = 0; j < k; j++) {
                ds.push_back(mat[i][j]);
            }
            
            res.push_back(ds);
        }
        return res;
    }
};
```
---
Authored by <a target="blank" href="https://github.com/geethsowri">_Geeth Sowri_</a>
