# GFG POTD - 26nd June 2024 - Coverage of all Zeros in a Binary Matrix

## `Question`
Given a binary matrix contains 0s and 1s only, we need to find the sum of coverage of all zeros of the matrix where coverage for a particular 0 is defined as a total number of ones around a zero in immediate left, right, up and bottom directions.
## `Approach`
- Initialization:
    - The code initializes count to 0, which will keep track of the total coverage.
    - rows and cols are set to the number of rows and columns in the matrix, respectively.
- Horizontal Check:
    - The first nested loop iterates over the matrix to check horizontal pairs of elements.
    - If a pair of adjacent elements (matrix[r][c] and matrix[r][c+1]) sum up to 1 (indicating one of them is 0 and the other is 1), it increments count.
- Vertical Check:
    - The second nested loop iterates over the matrix to check vertical pairs of elements.
    - If a pair of adjacent elements (matrix[r][c] and matrix[r+1][c]) sum up to 1 (indicating one of them is 0 and the other is 1), it increments count.
- Return Result:
    - Finally, the code returns the value of count, which represents the total number of ones surrounding all zeros in the matrix.
## `Time Complexity`
- The time complexity of the given code is O(n×m), where n is the number of rows and m is the number of columns in the matrix.
## `Code (C++)`
```c++ 
class Solution {
  public:
    int findCoverage(vector<vector<int>>& matrix) {
        int count = 0;
        int rows  = matrix.size();
        int cols = matrix[0].size();
        for(int r = 0; r <= rows-1; ++r) {
            for(int c = 0; c <= cols-2; ++c) {
                if(matrix[r][c] + matrix[r][c+1] == 1)
                    count++;
            }
        }
        for(int c = 0; c <= cols-1; ++c) {
            for(int r = 0; r <= rows-2; ++r) {
                if(matrix[r][c] + matrix[r+1][c] == 1)
                    count++;
            }
        }
        return count;
    }
};
```
---
Authored by <a target="blank" href="https://github.com/geethsowri">_Geeth Sowri_</a>
