## LEETCODE POTD - 22nd June 2024 - Count Number of Nice Subarrays [1248]

### `Question`
Given an array of integers nums and an integer k. A continuous subarray is called nice if there are k odd numbers on it. <br>
Return the number of nice sub-arrays.
### `Approach`
- Initialization:
    - **n** is set to the size of the input array **nums**.
    - **cnt** is a vector of size **n + 1**, initialized to 0. This vector is used to count occurrences of prefix sums.
    - **cnt[0]** is set to 1 to account for the case where the prefix sum itself forms a nice subarray.
    - **ans** is initialized to 0, which will store the final count of nice subarrays.
    - **t** is initialized to 0, which will store the current prefix sum of odd numbers.

- Iterating through the array:
    - For each element **v** in **nums**, check if it's odd by performing a bitwise AND operation (**v & 1**). Add the result (1 if odd, 0 if even) to **t** to update the current prefix sum of odd numbers.

- Checking for nice subarrays:
    - If **t - k** is non-negative, it means there is a previous prefix sum that, when subtracted from the current prefix sum, leaves exactly **k** odd numbers. The count of such previous prefix sums (**cnt[t - k]**) is added to **ans**.
    - Increment the count of the current prefix sum in **cnt[t]**.

- Returning the result:
    - After iterating through the entire array, **ans** will contain the total number of nice subarrays, and it is returned.


### `Code (C++)`
```c++ 
class Solution {
public:
    int numberOfSubarrays(vector<int>& nums, int k) {
        int n = nums.size();
        vector<int> cnt(n + 1, 0);
        cnt[0] = 1;
        int ans = 0, t = 0;
        for (int v : nums) {
            t += v & 1;
            if (t - k >= 0) {
                ans += cnt[t - k];
            }
            cnt[t]++;
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

---
Authored by <a target="blank" href="https://github.com/geethsowri">_Geeth Sowri_</a>
