## LEETCODE POTD - 24nd June 2024 - Minimum Number of K Consecutive Bit Flips [995]

### `Question`
You are given a binary array nums and an integer k. <br>
A k-bit flip is choosing a subarray of length k from nums and simultaneously changing every 0 in the subarray to 1, and every 1 in the subarray to 0. <br>
Return the minimum number of k-bit flips required so that there is no 0 in the array. If it is not possible, return -1. <br>
A subarray is a contiguous part of an array.
### `Approach`
- Tracking Flips: Use a helper array **isFlipped** to keep track of flips. This array will mark whether a flip operation is active at a particular index.
- Flipped State: Maintain a **flipped** state to indicate the number of active flips.
- Iterate through the array:
    - For each position **i**, check if it needs to be flipped. This is determined by the parity of **flipped** and the current bit `(nums[i])`.
    - If the bit needs to be flipped:
        - Ensure that flipping a subarray starting at `i` and extending to `i + k - 1` is within bounds.
        - Mark this position in **isFlipped** as starting a flip.
        - Update the **flipped** state.
        - Increment the result counter which counts the number of flips.
    - If the position `i - k` was previously flipped, decrement the **flipped** state.

### Complexity
- Time Complexity: O(n), where n is the length of the input array nums. Each element is processed a constant number of times.

### `Code (C++)`
```c++ 
class Solution {
public:
    int minKBitFlips(vector<int>& nums, int k) {
        int n = nums.size();
        int flipped = 0;
        int res = 0;
        vector<int> isFlipped(n, 0);
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (i >= k) {
                flipped ^= isFlipped[i - k];
            }
            if (flipped == nums[i]) {
                if (i + k > n) {
                    return -1;
                }
                isFlipped[i] = 1;
                flipped ^= 1;
                res++;
            }
        }
        return res;
    }
};
```
---
Authored by <a target="blank" href="https://github.com/geethsowri">_Geeth Sowri_</a>
