# LEETCODE POTD - 25nd June 2024 - Binary Search Tree to Greater Sum [1038]

## `Question`
Given the root of a Binary Search Tree (BST), convert it to a Greater Tree such that every key of the original BST is changed to the original key plus the sum of all keys greater than the original key in BST. <br>

As a reminder, a binary search tree is a tree that satisfies these constraints: <br>

The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys less than the node's key. <br>
The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys greater than the node's key. <br>
Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees.
## `Approach`
1. Reverse In-Order Traversal:

    - We traverse the BST starting from the rightmost node (which has the largest value) to the leftmost node (which has the smallest value).
    - While traversing, we keep a running total (sum) of all the node values we have seen so far.
    - As we visit each node, we update its value by adding the current sum to the node's value and then update sum to this new value.
2. Recursive Function:

    - We use a helper function to perform the reverse in-order traversal.
    - This function will be called recursively first on the right subtree, then the current node, and finally on the left subtree.
## `Time Complexity`
- The time complexity of this code is O(n), where n is the number of nodes in the BST. This is because we visit each node exactly once during the traversal.
## `Code (C++)`
```c++ 
class Solution {
private:
    int sum = 0;
    void traverse(TreeNode* root) {
        if (root) {
            traverse(root->right);
            sum += root->val;  
            root->val = sum; 
            traverse(root->left);  
        }
    }
public:
    TreeNode* bstToGst(TreeNode* root) {
        traverse(root);
        return root;
    }
};
```
---
Authored by <a target="blank" href="https://github.com/geethsowri">_Geeth Sowri_</a>
